It's Mooin' Time II bronze (#5815)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/bronze/usaco-1468.mdx

---
id: usaco-1468
source: USACO Bronze 2025 January
title: It's Mooin' Time II
author: Sachet Abeysinghe
---

[Official Analysis (C++, Python)](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_prob2_bronze_jan25.html)

## Explanation

Consider the array $[4, 2, 3, 3, 6, 3, 3]$. With the first two threes, we can form the moos $[4, 3, 3]$ and $[2, 3, 3]$. Then, with the next two threes, we can form

> the $[6, 3, 3]$. However, notice that with these two threes, we can also form $[4, 3, 3]$ and $[2, 3, 3]$. This leads to the key observation: we can make all possible moos with the last two occurrences alone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider the array $[4, 2, 3, 3, 6, 3, 3]$. With the first pair of threes, we can form the moos $[4, 3, 3]$ and $[2, 3, 3]$. Then, with the last pair of threes, we can form $[6, 3, 3]$. However, notice that with the last pair, we can also form $[4, 3, 3]$ and $[2, 3, 3]$. This leads to the key observation: we can make all possible moos with the last two occurrences alone.
```

To efficiently calculate the number of distinct numbers to the left of any index, we use a set and precompute the number of distinct values of each prefix by querying the length of the set.

## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N\log N)$

<LanguageSection>

<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

int main() {
	int n;
	cin >> n;

	vector<int> a(n);
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) { cin >> a[i]; }
	// find indices of occurrences of each number
	vector<vector<int>> frequency(n + 1);
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) { frequency[a[i]].push_back(i); }

	// precompute number of distinct values to the left of each index
	vector<int> num_distinct(n);
	set<int> distinct_vals;
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		num_distinct[i] = distinct_vals.size();
		distinct_vals.insert(a[i]);
	}

	// calculate answer
	long long ans = 0;
	for (int num = 1; num <= n; num++) {

> 		if ((int)frequency[num].size() >= 2) {

Reviewer: can remove the cast cuz ur not subtracting from the size anyways
